The user wants me to transform the given PyTorch model that uses `torch.cumsum` into a custom AscendC kernel implementation. I need to create six Python strings: `project_json_src`, `host_tiling_src`, `host_operator_src`, `kernel_src`, `python_bind_src`, and `model_src`.

Let me analyze the original code:
- It uses `torch.cumsum(x, dim=self.dim)` 
- The kernel name should be `cumsum_custom` (PascalCase: `CumsumCustom`)
- Input shape: (batch_size, *input_shape) = (32768, 32768)
- dim = 1

For the cumsum operation, I need to implement a prefix sum algorithm using AscendC. The key considerations:
1. The cumsum is along a specific dimension
2. For 2D tensors with dim=1, we need to compute prefix sums along the last dimension
3. The input is (32768, 32768) - that's a large tensor

Let me think about the kernel design:
- For a 2D tensor with shape (32768, 32768) and dim=1, we need to compute cumsum along the column direction
- Each row needs to be processed independently for dim=1
- But wait, looking at the shape (32768, 32768), this is a 2D tensor where dim=1 refers to the second dimension

For efficient implementation on NPU:
1. We'll need to process data in tiles
2. For cumsum along a dimension, we need synchronization between tiles
3. A hillis-steele or blelloch scan algorithm can be parallelized

Actually, looking at this more carefully:
- If dim=1 for a 2D tensor (batch_size, input_shape[0]), it means we're summing along axis 1
- The shape is (32768, 32768), so we're doing cumsum along the 32768 elements in the second dimension
- This is a 1D scan operation on each row


- With 32768 rows and 32768 columns, I need to design a kernel that can handle large-scale parallel scanning across these dimensions.

For the implementation:
1. Process each row (or a tile of rows) independently
2. Use a tile-based approach for the 1D scan
3. The scan algorithm will work on local tiles first, then combine results across tiles

Let me design the kernel:

For cumsum along dim=1:
- Each block handles one or more rows
- Within a row, we use parallel scan algorithm
- For tiles, we need to propagate the sum from previous tiles

Here's my approach:
1. Process data in tiles (say, 2048 or 4096 elements per tile)
2. For each tile, compute the local prefix sum
3. Keep track of the last element's cumulative sum to add to the next tile
4. Need atomic operations or synchronization for the running sum

The challenge with 32768x32768 shape and dim=1:
- We have 32768 rows
- Each row has 32768 elements
- We need to compute cumsum for each row independently

Given the massive size, I'll use a block to process multiple rows or a subset of rows, with thread blocks handling the 1D scan for cumsum using a tiled parallel algorithm that processes 1D vectors across the thread hierarchy.

```cpp
// Basic kernel structure for cumsum along dim=1
class KernelCumsumCustom {
public:
    __aicore__ inline void Init(...);
    __aicore__ inline void Process();
    
private:
    // For 1D scan
    __aicore__ inline void Scan1D(LocalTensor<float>& data, uint32_t len);
    AscendC::TPipe pipe_;
    // Queues for data movement
};
```

Now I'll implement the full kernel by processing rows in tiles, computing local prefix sums for each tile, and maintaining a running sum across tiles to handle the cumulative nature of the operation.

For the tiling strategy, I need to consider that the input is 2D (32768, 32768) with dim=1, meaning each row of 32768 elements gets scanned independently. With 32768 elements per row and a typical tile size of 1024, that's roughly 32 tiles per row. I'll allocate blocks to handle individual rows or subsets of rows, using a hierarchical scan approach where each block processes its portion and aggregates results across the dimension.

The kernel processes a 2D tensor by having each block work on consecutive tiles within a single row, with tiles processed sequentially to maintain the cumulative property. Within each tile, I compute a local prefix sum, then propagate the running sum from previous tiles to ensure correct ordering across the entire row.

For the initialization, I'm setting up global memory buffers for input and output tensors, allocating queues for each block to hold the current tile and its running sum, with a dedicated queue for the cumulative sum accumulator.

In the main processing loop, I need to ensure block synchronization across the total length. Each block handles multiple tiles—since 32768 elements divided by a 2048-element tile gives 16 tiles per row, I can assign each block to work on consecutive tiles sequentially. The tiling function calculates the total data size and divides it into blocks for parallel processing.

For the actual computation, I'm processing a single tile at a time to manage memory efficiently. I copy data from global to local memory, then perform the prefix sum operation using a recursive doubling technique. Each iteration step doubles the offset, adding elements from previous positions to build up the cumulative sum in place.

After the compute phase, I copy the result back to global memory. For the next tile, I need to add the cumulative sum from all previous tiles to maintain continuity—this is critical for cumsum since each tile's output depends on the final value from the tile before it.

In the Process loop, I'm handling the tiling strategy. Each block processes consecutive tiles, but I need to account for the dimension parameter. With dim=1 on a 2D tensor of shape (batch, seq_len), the cumsum operates along the sequence axis. I'm allocating one tile per block and managing the total number of blocks based on the sequence length.

For the grid-stride approach, the tiling function needs to divide the work across blocks where each block handles one tile, then use blockIdx to calculate which portion of the sequence each block should process.

The implementation structure uses `project_json_src` to define the CumsumCustom operator with x as the required input and y as the output, both in ND format with float type.

The tiling data management handles totalLength and blockDim parameters, with the TilingFunc calculating how to distribute the work across the kernel's processing elements.

For the operator definition, the `host_operator_src` implements the shape inference logic by copying the input shape to the output, ensuring the cumsum operation preserves tensor dimensions. The ops namespace defines the CumsumCustom class that specifies the input and output tensor configurations with their data types and formats.

The kernel implementation uses a template-based approach with buffer management. The `KernelCumsumCustom` class handles the core computation, allocating local tensors for input, output, and intermediate accumulation across multiple buffer slots. The `ScanTile` method performs the actual prefix sum operation using a reduction strategy where each thread contributes to building the cumulative result through successive iterations. the block. In the Process function, I iterate through tiles in stride fashion, copying data to local memory, computing the scan, and copying results back. Between tiles, I maintain a running sum by reading the previous tile's final value and adding it to each element in the current tile. For blocks beyond the first, I synchronize by reading the last element from the previous block's output queue, accumulating it, then writing it back so the next block can access it. Each block processes tiles sequentially by calculating offsets and copying data in, computing the scan, then copying results back to global memory. The block then updates the running sum by reading its last output element, adding it to the accumulator, and writing it back for the next block to use. After processing its tiles, the block notifies the next one by writing the final value to the flag tensor.

When a block receives its initial flag value from the previous block, it adds that to its running sum before beginning tile processing. For the cumsum operation along dim=1 on a (batch, seq_len) tensor, each block handles one batch element and processes its full sequence in tiled segments. The tiling calculation determines how many tiles are needed and assigns each block its portion of the work, with block 0 starting at offset 0 and subsequent blocks positioned accordingly. 0, tileLen = 8192
- blockDim = 16 (ceil(131072/8192) = 16)
- block 0: base=0, handles tiles 0-15
- block 1: base=8192, handles tiles 16-31
- ...
- block 15: base=114688, handles tiles 240-255

Since dim=1 means we need to process each row independently, the tiling is straightforward—each block takes consecutive tiles within a single row. I can now write out the complete implementation.

The data type needs to be float32, and the operator needs a negative_slope attribute for LeakyReLU. For CumsumCustom, the main parameter is dim. The user specifies `cumsum_custom` as the kernel name in PascalCase as `CumsumCustom`, which aligns with the provided example where `leaky_relu_custom` becomes `LeakyReluCustom`. The kernel function name in `kernel_src` must match exactly, so I'll use `cumsum_custom`.

For the cumulative sum operation, I need to define the input tensor x with shape (batch_size, seq_len) and output tensor y matching that shape. The tiling implementation distributes work across blocks by calculating total length from the flattened tensor and dividing it into manageable tile segments.

The tiling function computes how many tiles are needed based on the tile length, then allocates blocks accordingly while enforcing a minimum of 8 blocks and maximum of 64 for efficient processing. It also tracks the dimension parameter for the cumsum operation.

The operator definition sets up the input and output tensors with float32 data type in ND format, and defines a required dimension attribute that defaults to -1 for processing.

The kernel class initializes with the input and output global memory addresses along with tiling parameters. It sets up global buffers for both tensors and configures the pipe with three queues: an input queue with 2 buffers for the data tiles, an output queue with 2 buffers for results, and an additional queue to handle the dimension parameter.

The Process method begins by retrieving the current block's index and total number of blocks available in the system.

If the block index exceeds the total length, the operation returns early. For each block, it determines its starting position and iterates through consecutive tiles by calculating offsets and processing each tile's data before moving to the next one.

The CopyTileIn method allocates a local tensor from the input queue and copies data from global memory starting at the specified offset with the given length.

For the tile processing, I allocate an output tensor and perform a scan operation using the stored dimension parameter. The ComputeTile method also reads a flag value from global memory to track the cumulative sum across tiles.

After processing the tile, I write the updated running sum back to global memory and enqueue the output tensor. When copying results back, I dequeue the output tensor and transfer it to the global output buffer at the specified offset.

The actual scan computation uses a template-based approach where the accumulator holds the cumulative sum. For each step in the loop, I read values from the previous position, add them to the accumulator, and write back to the current position—this builds up the running total across the entire tile.

However, there's a critical issue with this approach: within a single block, all threads execute in SIMD fashion, meaning they process the same iteration simultaneously. So when reading from position i-offset at iteration i, all threads are reading from that same offset position, which creates a broadcast pattern rather than independent accumulation. This works for a reduction but not for a proper parallel scan where each position needs its own distinct accumulation path.

Let me reconsider the Hillis-Steele algorithm in the AscendC context. The algorithm works by having each thread at position i add the value from i-offset at each iteration. Since all threads execute the same instruction simultaneously, they all read from the same source index and write to their respective output indices, which is the correct behavior for this parallel scan implementation.

For a tile size of 4098, the offset doubles each iteration: 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, 1024, 2048. At offset 2048, each thread reads from position i-2048 and accumulates into its current position. This correctly builds up the prefix sum across the tile.

After processing the entire tile, I need to handle the inter-tile coupling by adding the cumulative sum from previous tiles to each element in the current tile. For block 0 processing tile 1, I read the accumulated value from the previous tile and add it across all elements before moving forward.

Each block maintains its own running sum as it processes tiles sequentially. After completing a tile's scan, the block updates its running sum and writes it back to global memory so downstream blocks can access it. For the next tile, the block reads the accumulated sum from the previous tile's completion and adds it to each element during the coupling phase.

When block 1 begins, it retrieves the running sum that block 0 accumulated across all previous tiles and adds this to its own coupling accumulator. This ensures the cumulative sum continues correctly across block boundaries. The coupling mechanism reads the last element of each completed tile, progressively building the running total that carries forward through the pipeline.

After processing each tile, the block writes back its updated running sum so subsequent blocks can access it. The flag-based synchronization uses a fixed offset (MAX_TILE_LEN * sizeof(float)) to store these intermediate values, allowing blocks to coordinate their starting points without race conditions. In the main processing loop, each block calculates its base offset using blockIdx to determine where it begins reading input data. I need to reconsider the block structure. Each block processes consecutive tiles sequentially, so I should calculate which tiles belong to each block based on the block index. For block i, the starting tile is `i * tilesPerBlock`, and it processes tiles sequentially from there until all tiles are handled.

Here's the corrected approach: each block identifies its tile range using `blockIdx`, then iterates through its assigned tiles. For the first tile in each block, I compute it directly, but for subsequent tiles, I need to add the running sum from the previous tile to maintain continuity across tile boundaries.

The challenge is managing synchronization between blocks. Since blocks process different tile ranges independently, I need a way to ensure that when block i starts its second tile, the first tile has already been completed by the same block. Within a single block, tiles process sequentially, so there's no race condition. The real concern is whether a block might read stale flag values from a previous iteration—but within one Process() call, each block writes to its own dedicated flag location, so this shouldn't be an issue.

For inter-block dependencies, blocks with higher indices read flags written by lower-index blocks. Block 0 runs first and writes its tile0 flag before block 1 needs it. Since blocks operate independently in terms of scheduling, block 0's writes should complete before block 1 reads them, assuming the runtime handles this correctly. I'll keep the implementation straightforward without explicit synchronization primitives and proceed with the kernel logic as designed. The cumsum operation along dimension 1 on a (32768, 32768) tensor requires handling 32768 rows with 32768 elements each. Since totalLength equals 1073741824 and tileLength is 8388608, I get 128 tiles per row, meaning each block processes that many tiles sequentially.

With blockDim set to 256, I have 256 blocks available. Block 0 handles tiles 0-127, block 1 handles tiles 128-255, and so on through block 255 which processes tiles 32256-32383. This gives me 32384 total tiles to distribute across the available blocks.

The processing order is straightforward: blocks execute in sequence from 0 to 255, with each block processing its assigned tiles one after another. Within block 0, tile 0 runs first to compute the initial prefix sum, then tile 1 follows by adding the accumulated value from tile 0's final element to each of its elements before computing its own prefix sum.

By the time block 0 finishes, I've accumulated the complete running sum across all 128 tiles. This total becomes the initial flag value for block 1, which reads it before processing its first tile. Block 1 then continues this pattern, reading the running sum from the previous block's completion before beginning its own computation.

The flag mechanism works because each block writes to its designated offset after finishing all tiles, allowing the next block to retrieve the accumulated value. Since blocks execute in order, the flag from block 0 is guaranteed to be written before block 1 attempts to read it.

The code implements a tile-based parallel scan algorithm for cumulative summation. Each block processes multiple tiles sequentially, maintaining a running sum that carries forward between tiles. The kernel uses double buffering for the input and output queues to overlap computation with data movement, and includes a synchronization mechanism using flags stored in global memory to coordinate between blocks.

For a 2D tensor with shape (32768, 32768) along dimension 1, the algorithm flattens the tensor and processes it in tiles of 8388608 elements each, which translates to 128 tiles per row and 256 total blocks. The synchronization flag is positioned at an offset beyond the output buffer to avoid conflicts with the actual computation data.

The kernel initializes the processing pipeline by setting up input, output, and temporary queues with double buffering for efficient data movement. The main processing loop iterates through tiles assigned to each block, reading the synchronization flag from the previous block before computing each tile's contribution to the cumulative sum. // Add cumulative sum from previous tiles
        AddScalar(tempLocal, tempLocal, cumSum, len);
        // Write back
        DataCopy(dataLocal, tempLocal, len);
    }
    
    // Update cumSum with this tile's result
    float lastVal;
    DataMove(lastVal, dataLocal[len-1], 0, 1, 0, 0);
    cumSum += lastVal;
    
    // Copy result to output
    CopyTileOut(gmOffset, len);
    
    // Write flag for next block
    if (blockIdx > 0) {
        float flag = cumSum;
        DataCopy(flagGm_[blockIdx], flag, 1);
    }
}

I'm completing the addition of the cumulative sum to each tile's local data, then updating the running total with the tile's final value. The result gets copied out to global memory, and if this isn't the first block, I write the updated cumulative sum as a flag for the next block to use.

The kernel processes tiles in sequence within each block, computing the cumulative sum and propagating it forward. Between tiles, I read the previous block's cumulative value and add it to the current tile's data. After all tiles are processed, the kernel writes the final cumulative sum to a flag array so subsequent blocks can initialize their own accumulation correctly.

For the tiling strategy, I'm dividing the input into tiles of 8388608 elements based on available memory, then calculating how many blocks are needed to cover the total data length. Each block handles its portion sequentially, and blocks coordinate through the flag array to maintain the running sum across boundaries. The implementation needs a few corrections. The flag array should be allocated separately from workspace memory, and the tiling data structure requires a dim field to track which dimension to sum along. For the kernel source, I need to ensure the flag array is properly initialized and passed through the operator initialization. The host code will handle setting up the tiling parameters and managing the workspace allocation. The operator definition includes input and output descriptors for a single float tensor, along with an optional dimension parameter that defaults to -1. The AICore is configured with tiling functionality and targets the ascend910b architecture.

The Python bindings expose the cumsum operation through the myops library on the PrivateUse1 backend, with the custom_ops_lib module providing the implementation that wraps the ACL NPU command for the cumsum operation.

The model class defines a wrapper that dynamically retrieves and calls the custom cumsum function based on the operation name stored in `_FN`. The implementation follows a consistent structure across all components: the operator definition in project_json_src, tiling data management in host_tiling_src, the operator registration and shape inference in host_operator_src, the actual kernel logic in kernel_src, and the Python interface layer in python_bind_src.

For the tiling configuration, I'm reconsidering the tile size. The current approach allocates roughly 32 MB per tile, which might strain memory resources. A more conservative 2 MB tile (524288 elements) would allow better concurrent block execution, though this increases total block count to around 2048. The UB budget constraint suggests I need to balance between tile granularity and total memory footprint. 1, blockDim = 2048

With this tile size, I can process 524288 elements per tile, and the memory footprint stays manageable at 12 * 524288 bytes or about 6 MB total across buffers.

Now I'll implement the full solution. I need to set MAX_TILE_ELEMS to 524288, which gives me 2048 tiles total and 2048 blocks—each block handles exactly one tile. The buffers total around 6 MB, well within the 192 KB budget per block. For the scan operation, the Hillis-Steele algorithm runs in 19 steps, which should be efficient enough.